Add post "Spicepods: From Zero To Hero" (#37)
spiceai/blog: content/posts/project/spicepods-from-zero-to-hero.md

  </div>
</div>

The CLI saves the Spicepod manifest file in the `spicepods` directory of your application. You can see it created a new serverops.yaml file, which should be included in your application and be committed to your source repository. Let's take a look at it.

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: center; padding: 5px;">
  <div style="display: flex; flex-direction: column;">
    <img max-width="400" alt="Figure 3. Spicepod manifest." src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/80174/144369087-59022f3d-84cc-4f8f-bceb-c60351ac69b7.png">
  </div>
</div>

The initialized manifest file is very simple. It contains a name and three main sections being:

- dataspaces
- actions
- training

We'll walk through each of these in detail, and as a Spicepod author, you can always reference the documentation for the [Spicepod manifest syntax](https://docs.spiceai.org/reference/pod/).

## Authoring a Spicepod manifest

You author and edit Spicepod manifest files in your favorite text editor with a combination of Spice.ai CLI helper commands. We eventually plan to have a VS Code extension and dashboard/portal editing abilities to make this even easier.

## Adding a dataspace

> To build an intelligent, data-driven application, we must first start with data.

Reviewer: Because the next paragraph already start nicely with `A Spice.aio dataspace is a logical grouping of data [...]`, I think this line can be skipped for concision.

Author: I think we need this, otherwise, the reader doesn't know why we need to add a dataspace.

> A Spice.aio **dataspace** is a logical grouping of data with definitions of how that data should be loaded and processed, usually from a single source. A combination of its data source and its name identifies it, for example, nasdaq/msft or twitter/tweets. Read more about Dataspaces in the [Core Concepts](https://docs.spiceai.org/concepts/dataspaces/) documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Spice.ai **dataspace** is a logical grouping of data with definitions of how that data should be loaded and processed, usually from a single source. A combination of its data source and its name identifies it, for example, nasdaq/msft or twitter/tweets. Read more about Dataspaces in the [Core Concepts](https://docs.spiceai.org/concepts/dataspaces/) documentation.
```

Let's add a dataspace to the Spicepod manifest to load CPU metric data from a CSV file. This file is a snapshot of data from [InfluxDB](https://www.influxdata.com/products/influxdb/), a time-series database we like.

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: center; padding: 5px;">
  <div style="display: flex; flex-direction: column;">
    <img max-width="400" alt="Figure 4. Adding a dataspace." src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/80174/144369723-4336a4d5-1637-42c8-94aa-369531d6d1f7.png">
  </div>
</div>

> We can see this dataspace is identified by its source `hostmertrics` a name `cpu`. It includes a `data` section with a file data connector, the path to the file, and a data processor to know how to process it. In addition, it defines a single measurement `usage_idle` under the measurements section, which is a measurement of CPU load. In Spice.ai, measurements are the core primitive the AI engine uses to learn and is always numerical data. Spice.ai includes a growing library of community contributable data connectors and data processors you can consist of in your Spicepod to access data. You can also contribute your own.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can see this dataspace is identified by its source `hostmetrics` and name `cpu`. It includes a `data` section with a file data connector, the path to the file, and a data processor to know how to process it. In addition, it defines a single measurement `usage_idle` under the measurements section, which is a measurement of CPU load. In Spice.ai, measurements are the core primitive the AI engine uses to learn and is always numerical data. Spice.ai includes a growing library of community contributable data connectors and data processors you can consist of in your Spicepod to access data. You can also contribute your own.
```

Let's add this reward code to perform_maintenance, which will reward performing maintenance when there is low CPU usage. 

```python
cpu_usage_prev = 100 - prev_state.hostmetrics_cpu_usage_idle
cpu_usage_new = 100 - new_state.hostmetrics_cpu_usage_idle
cpu_usage_delta = cpu_usage_prev - cpu_usage_new
reward = cpu_usage_delta / 100
```

This code takes the CPU usage (100 minus the idle time) deltas between the previous time state and the current time state, and sets the reward to be a normalized delta value between 0 and 1. When the CPU usage is moving from higher `cpu_usage_prev` to lower `cpu_usage_low`, its a better time to run server maintenance and so we reward the inverse of the delta. E.g. `80% - 50% = 30% = 0.3`. However, if the CPU moves lower to higher, `50% - 80% = -30% = -0.3`, it's a bad time to run maintenance, so we provide a negative reward or "punish" the action.

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: center; padding: 5px;">
  <div style="display: flex; flex-direction: column;">
     <img max-width="400" alt="Figure 9. Reward code" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/80174/144371629-497f0ed4-1217-4e55-b7dd-0eec3eb187ae.png">
  </div>
</div>

> Through these rewards and punishments and the CPU metric data, the Spicepod will when it is a good time to perform maintence and be the decision engine for the ServerOps application. You might be thinking you could write code without AI to do this, which is true, but handling the variety of cases, like CPU spikes, or patterns in the data, like cyclical server load, would take a lot of code and a development time. Applying AI helps you build faster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Through these CPU metric-driven rewards and punishments, the Spicepod will learn when it is a good time to perform maintenance. By applying AI, you can handle a variety of cases, like CPU spikes, or patterns in the data, such as cyclical server load, without spending the traditionally significant amount of development and testing time to do manually. Using AI as the application's decision engine helps you build for more cases faster.
```

## Putting it all together

The manifest now has defined data, actions, and rewards. The Spicepod can get data to learn which actions to take and when based on the rewards provided.

> If the Spice.ai runtime were running, the Spicepod would automatically use those updates to train each time you saved the manifest while monitoring reward performance in the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Spice.ai runtime is running, the Spicepod automatically trains each time the manifest file is saved. As this happens reward performance can be monitored in the dashboard.
```

> Once each training run completes, the application can query the Spicepod for a decision recommendation by calling the recommendations API http://localhost:8000/api/v0.1/pods/serverops/recommendation. The API returns a JSON document that provides the recommended action, the confidence of taking that action, and when that recommendation is valid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a training run completes, the application can query the Spicepod for a decision recommendation by calling the recommendations API http://localhost:8000/api/v0.1/pods/serverops/recommendation. The API returns a JSON document that provides the recommended action, the confidence of taking that action, and when that recommendation is valid.
```
